---
title: "FabLearn"
date: 2020-08-10 12:54
author: bklevence
---

***Fablearn***

**Why is maker-inspired education important?**

I believe student learning can be improved by allowing students creative agency in personal projects through maker-inspired education. Looking back on my time as a student as well as my current professional experience we learn the most when we are allowed to run on our own with tools and a medium. I have noted students are more engaged when they can independently develop a small project to test their skills and learn new skills. To summarize I believe there is a place for your traditional lecture, but I also think creating a space for maker-inspired learning works within the classroom, and courses benefit greatly from small scale project based learning, or the utilization of maker-inspired education across disciplines. Maker inspired education allows students to more easily relate their learning to their lives, and apply learned skills to their interests.

**Describe your experience with making, digital fabrication, or other maker-inspired activities in your learning space, project, or environment.**

In my current learning environment at my current job at Northern Valley Regional High School at Demarest I run a variety of courses for students 9th-12th grade to learn about making and design in our Woodshop and Engineering Design Labs. In my foundations course students experience a variety of design and making processes to set them up for success in future technology courses, independent capstone projects, and future endeavors based on their interests. We work on a variety of projects that include traditional woodworking techniques, digital design and fabrication, physical computing, and more. I also teach an inclusion class for students with a variety of disabilities.  Prior to this position I ran the digital fabrication lab, CTE shops, and entrepreneurship activities at the Workshop School in Philadelphia. At the Workshop I ran a club called Workshop Industries who's students sold $16,000 dollars worth of digitally fabricated ornaments during the 2018 holiday season. Finally, prior to this I developed and implemented various maker programs and makerspaces on the library floor as a co-founder of the MakerJawn Initiative at the Free Library of Philadelphia. I have experience ranging from arts and crafts to CNC machine operation and love engaging with others around learning various tools and processes.


**Please describe a specific project you worked on with your students during which you learned something powerful or new.**

This past year I began teaching an inclusion woodshop course for 9th-12th grade students with a variety of disabilities within my school district. This course initially kept the students siloed in the shop during a regularly scheduled class, but quickly spread across my level two engineering courses as I got those students involved with co-designing products with them. During this diffusion of the class into other courses I learned how open my students are to making their skills and thoughts accessible to others. Specifically I was amazed by how my students worked on various ways to understand and communicate with my inclusion students to co-design products with them. This work allowed both myself and my students to reframe the project work we do, share it, and create a local community around co-creation and sharing of skills I have never seen before. This has allowed for me to show my students how powerful it is to work for and with others in a public education space that does not make this sort of work with the general public easily accessible.

**How is digital fabrication and making in your school, community, or organization being connected to local culture, materials, practices, and lives of students?**

Students are exposed to making and digital fabrication in my district's feeder schools. When they reach high school all students must take Technology and Engineering Foundations as a required course which intros digital fabrication with our 3D printers, laser cutter, and CNC machines. After this course students have the ability to take courses related to bio-medical technology, woods, engineering design, and entrepreneurship. In all of these courses students learn about how making and digital fabrication skills can be applied to their interests, how they're used at local organizations ranging from boutique stores to medical centers, and their impact on our immediate communities. I open up our shops and tools for a variety of alternate experiences ranging from student and faculty independent projects to club utilization by our tabletop gaming group, as well as robotics and rocketry teams. With regards to materials I have spent a lot of time this past year with students practicing material usage calculation, proper material selection during design and prototyping, and the proper sorting or reuse of scrap and waste. One focus of my entrepreneurship students is now the safe and sustainable ways for my inclusion students to naturally stain lasercut wood products.

**Please explain what you expect to learn from joining the FabLearn Fellows Program, how your students will benefit, and how it might advance your career or project.**

In joining the FabLearn Fellows program I hope to engage in a professional learning network centered around making, reflection on culture, sustainability efforts, and digital fabrication in education. I believe that all of my students and my department will benefit from any additional resources I receive or contribute to as a fellow as these topics are essential to all of my courses. Specifically I hope create better sustainability frameworks for students to use while designing and making. So far my students have experienced a data driven approach through material estimation and material usage calculations, but I want to establish defined protocols and lenses to invite my students to build a culture around sustainable practice and making.  

**Do you have anything more to add for your consideration as a FabLearn Fellow?**

I studied Industrial Design for my undergrad and researched alternative methods for producing low cost electronics for the Free Library of Philadelphia. During this time I created a low-cost derivative of the MaKey MaKey called the OneKey. This focus on low cost and accessibility in informal education spaces has guided many larger decisions I have made regarding student work and the tools we utilize in more formal educational spaces.  While I currently work in defined workshop spaces for woodworking and engineering design I am very much actively working towards making them more accessible as part of my inclusion courses. I am also beginning to push my department and students to focus on sustainable practice with regards to safe and conscientious material usage across all projects.
