---
title: "EDU621: General Topic"
date: 2019-07-15 12:54
author: bklevence
---

Responding to "But What Is Urban Education" by H. Richard Milner

a.     Based on the article, do “urban” schools have to be in “urban” areas? Explain.
	Milner is quick to open up his article with the fact that there is no clear definition for the term urban. Professionals in education loosely through the term around to quickly define schools in a variety of different settings with a variety of students. As Milner says it’s a term used to generalize about the “characteristics” of a school rather than its context. So urban schools do not need to be in urban areas.  
b.     What are the usual characteristics of “urban schools”?
As Milner sees first hand, a lot of times it’s used to note that the student population is largely people of color(P556). Urban schools can also be characterized as schools with a community that is largely at or below the poverty line. So in Milners experience both race and socioeconomic status are two separate factors that lead to schools being deemed urban schools. Once categorized as an urban school they are generally deemed underperforming.
c.      What negative issues are urban schools usually associated with?
	Some educators or administrators will externalize the blame for underperforming to parents and students. With regards to parents they will be deemed disengaged and not present for their students. With regards to the students they blame low performance across the board on behavioral, truancy, or motivation issues within the student population(P557). There is a broader sense that urban schools are full of students that don’t know how to “do school”. In reality the institution is not doing its best to reach the students where they are with regards to policy and instructional practice. So while education professionals may point fingers at people they should really point fingers at the system
D. Briefly describe what the author means by Urban Intensive, Urban  Emergent, and Urban  Characteristic
	Milner begins to design a system for us to better describe schools that may have common problems or characteristics but are in varied social or geographical contexts(P559). Urban Intensive is a term to define schools in large metropolitan areas with a high density population(NYC, LA, ATL). Urban Intensive schools are largely defined by their lack of resources for their population who bring to the table many external challenges such as housing, transportation, and poverty. Urban Emergent schools are typically still found in large cities, but with populations hovering around a million people or less. They still have issues with lack of quality resources for students, and the external challenges students face may be less complex. Finally Milner defines Urban Characteristic as schools that face similar challenges to Intensive or Emergent schools, but they are not located in a metro-area. The Intensive and Emergent schools seem to face challenges with their population either lacking teachers or having an influx of students requiring more resources(ELL).
I find this reading as an interesting response to Dyan Watson’s “What do you mean when you say Urban?”. Milner makes a framework to clearly label a school based on how a school operates, what challenges it may need to address, or it’s resources. Milner seeks to codify our use of the term urban and allow us to continue to use it. It’s a response to Watson that allows us to start using specifics rather than generalities when we use the term urban.
