---
title: "EDU629: Module 10 Discussion Post"
date: 2020-06-20 12:54
author: bklevence
---

***EDU629: Module 10 Discussion Post***





Having gone from working in Philadelphia public schools to working in Bergen County, I have been pretty aware of the content that I post to my LMS prior to acquiring my new job. One of the ways I try to inspire my students is by posting additional resources to Haiku with a focus on gender representation and representation of BIPOCs. While my district, specifically my supervisor, has started programs specific to supporting females taking certain pathways within the technology department, I don't find it to be enough. By making sure my additional resources include a variety of cultures I believe I am doing a small part to allow for students to find role models or envision themselves working with the content I teach professionally in the future. I think a key part to starting this thinking is making sure this content is multimedia and as accessible as possible so that it's not just the traditional report on a historical figure, but additional and enriching content that is being currently created by a leader in various technology fields. Continuing to add to these resources is what I am to do going forward.

Moving forward I hope to better motivate my students through better structuring the way I push them to present their work. This past semester I used flipgrid heavily for peer-peer commentary, and hope to do so going forward. I believe it will be a great way for students to present their final project work and for other students to casually offer feedback and critique to others. I have found this format to be fairly fluid and accessible to students, and motivates them to have fun with sharing and commenting on each others work. I also hope to create more formal ways of praising my students as they learn new tools and skills. Most likely this will come in the form of allowing them to undertake more creative side projects as they progress through different tools in the shop. This past year I made a promise to students who completed some additional work to attain a certificate on one of our learning platforms that I'd help them design something they wanted to make using our 3D printers. A few students took me up on this offer and the extra work we did designing their personal projects was, fun, engaging, and work on a higher level than I had seen previously in my courses.


Hansen, C. B. (2019). The Heart and Science of Teaching: Transformative Applications That Integrate Academic and Social–Emotional Learning. [VitalSource Bookshelf]. Retrieved from https://bookshelf.vitalsource.com/#/books/9780807777497/
Tomlinson, D.A.S.C. A. (2018). Differentiation and the Brain. [VitalSource Bookshelf]. Retrieved from https://bookshelf.vitalsource.com/#/books/9781945349539/
